All right guys so this is gonna be just a bonus video showing you how I created the very simple news
grid logo and it's this is not true logo design because what I really did is I found an icon on the
Internet and I just added some text to it.
I edited the colors a little bit.
But what this is gonna do is give you a small introduction to Photoshop because photoshop is very beneficial
when you are creating graphics and or even creating mockups stuff like that.
So I just figured I'd add this on and I'm by no means am I like a true graphic designer.
I have a little bit of capabilities but I wouldn't call myself a graphic designer by any means.
So what we're gonna do first is create this is Photoshop S.C. and I'm going to open.
I'm going to create a new file so you guys can't see my menu what I'm going to go to file new and I'm
going to create a new document with the width of six hundred by let's say six hundred with four hundred
height and create.
And let me just bring this over.
OK.
And then I just search google for a global icon and I found this here.
So if I go to search global icon it's going to be this one right here from Carmen's dot Wikimedia dot
org.
Now make sure if you if you're doing this type of thing for a client or for a production Web site make
sure that if you do use an icon like this.
Make sure it's it's it's stock it's free stock image and it's not from another website or anything like
that because you could run into some issues some copyright issues.
So I'm going to go ahead and just save this image
and then I'm going to drag it into my Photoshop image.
I can actually just take this and bring it right in like that and let's resize this so we'll do like
like that and this isn't gonna be the exact image that we use but this is how I did it.
So going to choose this tool right here which allows me to move things around so I'll move this over
here and let's choose the text tool right here and just click in there and I'm going to say news you
guys can't see probably can't see that so small I'll increase in a second but I'm I'm typing news grid
and we can change the the the size of the font up here aren't sure exactly what size I use.
Let's highlight this and 72 is the largest we can choose here but you can put in whatever whatever point
you want.
So let's bring this over and I don't think this machine has the exact font that I used but of course
you could go through the fonts if I just go up here and just move the mouse wheel it will show me all
the different fonts that I can use.
So we'll just choose like again this isn't going to be the same exact logo but we'll choose see
something that's kind of square we'll just use that I guess.
All right.
So you find a font and let's see we have a color that we want to use which is that red color.
So I'm going to click on the palette right here and just kind of guess.
So it was like a darker red so something see something like that.
So click okay and let's highlight grid and then click this color up this box up here which is the actual
text color and I can choose from here.
I could have just did that but I wanted it in my palette over here.
But you'll see it turns into an eyedropper when I hover over it and if I click it will change the color
to that.
All right.
So that's the text now for the the globe here.
I want these four inner squares to be red.
I wanted to be this color.
So I'm going to grab the wand tool right here and I'm going to click actually see over here in our layers.
I probably should have explained the layers I'm going to deselect with control D but we have layers.
So we have the texts we have the actual icon and we have the background and we can remove the background
with this little eye right here so we can remove that we're gonna want to do that before we export the
file as a PMG.
Now in PND you can have a transparent background like this but J pegs you can't.
So if you want a transparent background and not a white or solid color then make sure you export as
PMG or gift Jeff whatever you want to however you want to say it.
People say it in different ways but gifts are are not as high quality as PND are.
All right.
So we're just going to leave the background for now just so we can kind of see what we're doing.
But I'm gonna go and highlight the globe icon here and again choose the one tool.
And I'm going to click in here and you'll see the little the moving bars around the box here.
That means it's selected.
Now I want to select all four.
So I'm going to hold down shift and click this one this one in this one.
OK.
And then I'm going to go over to my brush tool which is this one right here and see actually you know
what I think we have to raster arises first.
Yes the CIA can't do anything.
We have to rationalize this.
So we're going to go over to the layer and right click and say raster I's layer and now we can color
it and noticed that it's only coloring within the selected parameters.
And you can if you right click with the brush tool you can make it bigger so it can make it bigger like
that.
So now every all the four boxes are colored in.
I'm going to d select with control D.
And that's it.
OK.
So pretty simple.
Now I also have the the light version of it so that it can go on a dark background because if I take
this background and this is going to be locked by default the background so you have to double click
and just click Okay.
And now it's unlocked and we could take the brush and color this if we wanted to.
But I'm just going to double click and it opens up the layer style panel and from here I'm going to
choose color overlay and then we can actually choose a color.
I'm just going to make it really dark like our footer is because that's where we put the light version
and click Okay.
All right.
Now that doesn't look too good it's just it's too dark there's no contrast.
So what I'll do is over here you can see the folder icon I'm going to create a new folder by default.
It's called Group 1 but I'm going to rename it double click rename it to standard.
And I'm going to move my two layers the icon in the news grid the text into that standard folder.
All right.
Now if I click the eye here I can toggle it.
OK now I'm going to create another folder down here.
Make sure it's not in the standard.
And I'm going to call this one light all right.
And then what I want to do is duplicate both of these.
The news the text in the global icon.
So I'm going to right click and I'm going to say duplicate layers and you can name them if you want.
I'm just going to click OK.
And they're just going to be called copy.
And now let's move this into the light folder.
Ok.
And then I'm going to take the standard folder and just click the I.
So it's not showing.
So now it's just showing that the logo and or the icon in the text that are in the light folder.
And now I want to make these light.
So the text is easy I can just choose the text tool highlight news click on this and make it white.
Click OK.
And then for the icon I'm going to make sure that it's selected over here in the layer panel and grab
the wand.
And I want to select apps.
Let's see.
There we go.
So I want to select in there.
I'm actually going to zoom in so the microscope here and just zoom in and then click the wand and hold
shift.
That's not the one that's the color picker.
We're going to hold shift and just click in each of these
OK.
And then what I'll do is choose the brush tool and I'm going to change the color.
Now this.
We have two colors here you can see the blue I'm just going to switch these just so I have that red
one as a backup.
I'm going to change this to white and that's going to be the color of the brush and I'll just go ahead
and fill that in.
It's only going to fill in watch what's selected and they'll do control D to D select and then let's
zoom out.
We'll just say we want to say 100 percent.
And that's the actual logo OK so that's basically what I did.
And then we can take the crop tool and crop this image.
So basically we can just select around it like that.
We can adjust it and let's right click and say crop.
All right.
So now the image is only this big.
And we have the light.
If I click the little icon and click standard we have our standard.
Now we're gonna want to remove the background so we'll click that.
And now we have our standard and our light.
OK.
Now let's save the standard.
So I'm going to go to file.
Now you could do well just to save as much as I don't want to make this too confusing.
So let's go to save as and you can see that by default that's it's getting saved as a PSA D OK but I'm
going to call this logo and I don't want it to be a PSC that's a photoshop file meaning that it will
include all these layers and stuff.
But we can't use that inside of a web page.
So I'm just going to choose from here P and G.
All right.
And then I'll save this too.
We'll just save it too I guess my desktop and we're gonna get this PMG options we're gonna just click
OK here.
All right.
So that saves the regular logo.
Now let's click the light.
And same thing file save as and I'm going to change the nickname this logo underscore light and I'm
going to choose PSG for this as well.
OK.
And that's it.
Now if I close or minimize this and just get rid of all this stuff don't save and then I can show you.
Let me just bring over what I saved so we have our logo light and we have our logo PMG.
All right.
And if I just open this with preview we just have just a standard image that we can include in our web
page.
OK.
So I just wanted to kind of go through that little process.
It's not really something that you know is is needed to know to build Web sites but if you want to get
into editing images maybe creating graphics and stuff like that or just maybe just text logos photoshop
is great for that.
There's also gimp which is an open source tool that is very similar to Photoshop.
You also have Adobe XDR you have sketch Fig.
There's there's a lot of different graphic design programs out there so you know fine find one that
fits fits you and you know it was pretty easy for you to pick up but I just wanted to throw that video
in there.
Hopefully guys enjoyed it and that's it.
Thanks.